To whom it may concern,
I am writing this letter in support of Samuel Flores's candidacy for an academic research post.  I have known Sam since he took my Genomics and Bioinformatics class in the Fall of 2003.  Following excellent performance in that course, he began collaborating me and formally joined my lab thereafter.  I was his advisor until his thesis defense in the Summer of 2007.  Since then we have been in contact to wrap up pending papers, to answer questions from users of scientific servers we created, etc.
From the outset Sam was self-starting, proposing to use my database of macromolecular motions at MolMovDB.org to predict the ligand binding motions of proteins.  Towards this goal he upgraded the database and server to handle nonlinear motions, larger molecules, and multiple polymer chains; the resulting paper has now been cited 50 times.  In the interest of predicting motions starting from a single protein structure, he then developed a sophisticated series of algorithms, collectively called HingeMaster, which predicted points of flexibility.  This resulted in a separate server which has now had some 500 unique users submitting over 1600 protein structures.  In a final piece of work, he wrote a code, the Conformation Explorer, which used the flexibility information to economically predict the ligand binding domain motions of proteins.
In addition to being innovative and motivated, Sam is also highly collaborative.  He has written six papers with me and although he is first author on all but one, he also recruited a great team of collaborators from within and outside Yale who made valuable contributions.  They appear to have enjoyed working with him; his collaborators subsequently invited him to give talks in Texas and Barbados and offered him postdoctoral positions.
He also excelled in mentoring undergraduates and junior graduate students.  At one point he was supervising five undergraduates who assisted him in his research.  Several of his undergraduates appeared as authors on one or another of his papers, and at least three are now pursuing MD or MD/PhD degrees.  He also mentored one rotation student who wrote three papers with us, including one as first author.
He gives very clear talks, with great graphics and movies that explain his points and capture the attention of the audience.  The confident delivery will serve him well in lectures and talks for years to come.  If you have any further questions I shall be glad to be of help.
